\chapter{Contributing data to AuroraWatch UK}

\section{Use of data by AuroraWatch UK }

Data contributed to AuroraWatch UK will be combined with other
magnetometer data for the purpose of generating AuroraWatch UK or
other auroral-related alerts. In future the alerts data is likely to
be made available via a public \api\ under the
\href{\ccByNcSaFourUrl}{Creative Commons
  Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0} license. Ideally you will
also license the magnetometer data under the
\href{\ccByNcSaFourUrl}{Creative Commons
  Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0} license (but with your own
attribution requirements).

\helpbox{You may choose a more permissive license, such as without the
  attribution, and\slash or non-commercial clauses, but if it includes
  the share-alike clause you must also dual-license it to AuroraWatch
  UK under the \href{\ccByNcSaFourUrl}{Creative Commons
    Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0} license (or grant
  AuroraWatch UK permission to share it under that license, which is
  effectively, the same as dual-licensing). This is because the
  share-alike clause restricts others from imposing additional
  restrictions.}

The magnetic field data collected by AuroraWatch UK magnetometers will
be made publically available under the
\href{\ccByNcSaFourUrl}{Creative Commons
  Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0} license, with a short
embargo period (24 to 48 hours). If your magnetometer data is also
licensed as \ccByNcSaFour\ then AuroraWatch UK will share your data in
the same way.

\section{Methos to upload data}
Two methods to upload data are supported, using
\href{\rsyncUrl}{rsync} through an \ssh\ tunnel, or by \http. Rsync
contains an algorithm to efficiently transfer difference in files, and
thus is ideal for transferring the real-time data files. \ssh\ is used
to provide a secure connection method. However, \ssh\ access may not
be possible on some networks (\eg, school networks). 

For cases when rsync cannot be used a \http\ upload method is
available. This emulates some of the behaviour of rsync; whenever
possible only the latest additions to a file are uploaded.



